# Goin' Out Of My Head
## An Example of Lilypond functionality

This is my preferred way to write sheet music, historically.

I like quickly banging out a leadsheet like this, but I wish
Lilypond had some other important functionality.

I dream about writing my own version of lilypond someday,
but it's not a high priority of mine. I hope somebody does
it.

Here are some things that would be great:

### Cleaner, more reliable formatting

You can see in this document that a custom function had to
be made to increase spacing between the header and the sheet
music. This is such a foundational concept in sheet music
formatting that it should not need to be custom made.

Relatedly, maybe my workflow needs refinement, but I do not
find it easy to create reliably formatted leadsheets without
a lot of tweaking of unclear and unreliable settings. Like I
said, it could be me, but I feel like the main purpose of
Lilypond is not reflected in the amount of tweaking that I
usually feel that I need to do.

What are they called "sane defaults"? ;)

### Detaching melody from rhythm

I wish that a rhythm could be assigned to a melody, and vice
versa. This could make transcription so much easier
considering how often melodies are repeated with slight
rhythmic variation.

Relatedly, considering how often rhythms are repeated with
harmonic or chordal variation... well obviously this would
be a really useful function.

### Easily creating variations

Considering how often a melodic phrase has a note or two
changed, this is an attractive functionality.

Maybe I should just be concatenating variables more. I guess
that's a reasonable solution.

But it feels like I should be able to set default
rhythms/melodies for a theme and easily call the theme with
arguments to create variations.
